医96级七年制神经病学考试（B卷）
2000、3、26


学号                  姓名                   成绩

一、单项最佳选择题（每题2分，共40分）：
1.  Paralysis with upper motor neuron lesion must be considered by the 
following
 characters, EXCEPT:
A.  Babinski sign;
B.  Increased deep tendon reflexes;
C.  Spastic characters;
D.  Pseudobulbar paralysis;
E.  Fasciculations.
2.  Which one of the followings is correct about component parts of Corpus 
Stria
tum?
A.  Paleostriatum, pallidum, and basal ganglia;
B.  Neostriatum, pallidum, and substantia nigra;
C.  Lentiform nucleus, caudate nucleus, and pallidum;
D.  Pallidum, caudate nucleus, and neostriatum;
E.  Pallidum, putamen nucleus, and caudate nucleus.
3.  Which one of the followings ISN'T one of the components of circle of 
Willis?
A.  Internal carotid artery;
B.  Middle cerebral artery;
C.  Anterior communicating artery;
D.  Posterior communicating artery;
E.  Posterior cerebral artery.
4.  Which one of the followings is a complete neurological examination?
A.  Mental status, cranial nerves, coordinate function, sensory function 
and ref
lexes;
B.  Mental status, cranial nerves, coordinate and motor function, sensory 
functi
on and reflexes;
C.  Cranial nerves, coordinate and motor function, sensory function and 
reflexes
;
D.  Cranial nerves, periphery nerves, motor function, sensory function and 
refle
xes;
E.  None of the above-mentioned.
5.  The localization of lower motor neuron lesions include following sites, 
EXCE
PT:
A.  Anterior horn cells of spinal cord;
B.  Caudal equina;
C.  Conus medullaris;
D.  Mesencephalic nucleus of trigeminal;
E.  Pyramidal tract.
6.  Localization of cerebellar hemisphere lesions must be considered by the 
foll
owing findings, EXCEPT:
A.  Ipsilateral intention tremor;
B.  Ipsilateral dysdiadochokinesia;
C.  Ipsilateral dysmetria;
D.  Ipsilateral hypotonicity;
E.  Ipsilateral Paralysis.
7.  A patient complains of the power of left limbs decreased for three 
months. T
he neurological examination showed the patient had right gaze preference, 
decrea
sed muscle power(Ⅲ~Ⅳ) and increased deep tendon reflex in left limbs. The 
loca
lization of this patient may be:
A Left frontal lobe;               B. Right frontal lobe;
  C. Left parietal lobe;              D. Right parietal lobe;
  E. Thalamus
8.  Which of the followings are the core features of Parkinson's disease?
  A. Bradykinesia, rigidity, and tremor;
  B. Rigidity, shuffling gait, and tremor;
  C. Rigidity, weakness, and tremor;
  D. Shuffling gait, akinesia, and weakness;
  E. Shuffling gait, pill-rolling, and akinesia.
9.  About the features of "spinal shock", which one of the followings is 
WRONG?
  A. Complete absence of reflex below the level of the injury;
  B. Complete absence of autonomic activity below the level of the
     injury;
  C. Flaccid paralysis;
  D. Extensor plantar responses;
F.  All of the above-mentioned

10. The following clinical criteria can make a diagnosis of definite MS 
(multipl
e sclerosis), but which one must be excluded?
  A. Patient must have two separate central nervous system lesions;
  B. Symptoms must have occurred in two or more separate episodes;
  C. Symptoms must involve the white matter;
  D. Symptoms must involve the gray matter;
  E. Neurological examination must show objective abnormalities.
11. Female, 40. Unilateral headache accompanied nausea and vomiting for 
five yea
rs with various intensity, lasted an average of 24 hours (a range of 5 to 
72 hou
rs). The general medical and neurological examinations of this patient are 
norma
l. The most likely diagnostic possibility is:
  A. Tension headache;                 B. Cluster headache;
  C. Migraine;                        D. Secondary headache;
  E. Hypochondriasis.
12. A 40-years old man developed bilateral facial weakness and difficulty 
in cli
mbing stairs for one week after a respiratory illness. The most possible 
diagnos
is is:
    A. Bell's palsy;                     B. Multiple sclerosis;
    C. Periodic paralysis;                D. Guillain-Barré syndrome;
    E. Motor neuron disease.
13. The feature of Brown-Sequard syndrome(hemisection of the spinal cord) 
is:
A.  Ipsilateral thermanesthesia;
B.  Ipsilateral anesthesia;
C.  Contralateral hemiparesis;
D.  Ipsilateral loss of vibratory sense;
E.  Contralateral hemiparesis and hypalgesia.
14. About the main presentation of Increased intracranial pressure (ICP), 
which
one of the followings is the best?
A.  Seizure, headache, papilledema;
B.  Seizure, vomiting, papilledema;
C.  Headache, vomiting, papilledema;
D.  Headache, seizure, focal neurological signs;
E.  Vomiting, seizure, focal neurological signs.
15. Trigeminal neuralgia is described as a brief electric shocktype pain 
limited
 to the distribution of any branch of the Trigeminal nerve. Which one of 
the fol
lowing drugs is the best for its treatment?
A.  Baclofen;                        B Carbamazepine;
C Vitamin B12;                      D Valproate;
E Alcohol blocks.
16. Myasthenia Gravis (MG) is a disorder of impairing the neuromuscular 
junction
. The followings are correct, EXCEPT:
A.  The patients have no abnormality of mental state;
B.  The patients present with muscle weakness and fatigue;
C.  The hallmark of MG is pathologic fatigability;
D.  Eye findings are the most common with ptosis;
E.  MG may effect pupillary function.
17. Muscular dystrophies are genetically determined primary diseases of 
muscle,
characterized pathologically by muscle fiber degeneration. Which one of the 
foll
owings is inherited as X-linked recessive traits?
A.  Myotonic dystrophy;
B.  Duchenne muscular dystrophy;
C.  Limb-girdle dystrophy;
D.  Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy;
E.  Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy;
18. Management of the patients with intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) should 
be dir
ected toward preserving remaining neurological function and preventing 
deteriora
tion due to elevated ICP (intracranial pressure) with resultant coma or 
death. T
he following treatment methods are correct, EXCEPT:
A.  An airway should be established;
B.  The patients should be kept at bed rest;
C.  CT scan of the brain should be executed immediately;
D.  Blood pressure of the patients should be elevated by some drugs to 
increase
cerebral blood flow;
E.  The management of increased ICP includes the use of hyperventilation.
19. Transverse myelitis is a syndrome of acute inflammation acting
across the entire spinal cord. The following diagnostic evaluation
should be carried out, EXCEPT:
A.  MRI of the spinal cord;              B Lumbar puncture;
C Vitamin B12 of the serum;             D Sedimentation rate;
E DNA analysis.
20. Which of the following descriptions about transient ischemic attacks
    (TIAs) is the best?
A.  TIAs are temporary dysfunction of brain tissue caused by inadequate 
blood fl
ow;
B.  Carotid artery territory TIAs often produce ipsilateral hand and arm 
weaknes
s and sensory loss;
C.  TIAs refer to brief, reversible focal neurological deficits that they 
must r
ecover completely within 24 hours;
D.  TIAs last only minutes and may occur in any vascular territory;
E.  TIAs of the carotid territory include biocular blindness and transient 
hemis
phere attacks.

二、问答题（每题15分，共60分）
1、 试述急性横断性脊髓炎的临床表现与主要处理原则；
2、 试述脑出血的主要处理原则；
3、 试述各型重症肌无力危象的鉴别诊断及肌无力危象处理原则；
4、 女性，40岁。入院前二周曾发热，流清水鼻涕，在本院门诊拟诊"上呼吸道感染"。
入院
前一天患者感四肢末端发麻、乏力。入院时体检：神清。双侧额纹减少及眼裂闭合欠佳
，双
侧鼻唇沟浅。双上肢肌力Ⅲ级，双下肢肌力Ⅳ级，肌张力低下，双侧二头肌反射（-），
膝
反射（-），肘、膝关节远端肢体痛觉减退。试分析该病人的诊断及主要处理原则。

 
--
