医96级(1)(10)班神经病学考试（B卷）
2000、3、26


班级           学号                姓名              成绩

一、单项最佳选择题（每题2分，共40分）：
1.  Paralysis with upper motor neuron lesion must be considered by the 
following
 characters, EXCEPT:
A.  Babinski sign;
B.  Increased deep tendon reflexes;
C.  Spastic characters;
D.  Pseudobulbar paralysis;
E.  Fasciculations.
2.  Which one of the followings ISN'T one of the components of circle of 
Willis?
A.  Internal carotid artery;
B.  Middle cerebral artery;
C.  Anterior communicating artery;
D.  Posterior communicating artery;
E.  Posterior cerebral artery.
3.  The localization of lower motor neuron lesions include following sites, 
EXCE
PT:
A.  Anterior horn cells of spinal cord;
B.  Caudal equina;
C.  Conus medullaris;
D.  Mesencephalic nucleus of trigeminal;
E.  Pyramidal tract.
4.  Localization of cerebellar hemisphere lesions must be considered by the 
foll
owing findings, EXCEPT:
A.  Ipsilateral intention tremor;
B.  Ipsilateral dysdiadochokinesia;
C.  Ipsilateral dysmetria;
D.  Ipsilateral hypotonicity;
E.  Ipsilateral Paralysis.
5.  Which of the followings are the core features of Parkinson's disease?
  A. Bradykinesia, rigidity, and tremor;
  B. Rigidity, shuffling gait, and tremor;
  C. Rigidity, weakness, and tremor;
  D. Shuffling gait, akinesia, and weakness;
  E. Shuffling gait, pill-rolling, and akinesia.
6.  About the features of "spinal shock", which one of the followings is 
WRONG?
  A. Complete absence of reflex below the level of the injury;
  B. Complete absence of autonomic activity below the level of the
     injury;
  C. Flaccid paralysis;
  D. Extensor plantar responses;
  E. All of the above-mentioned
7.  The following clinical criteria can make a diagnosis of definite MS 
(multipl
e sclerosis), but which one must be excluded?
  A. Patient must have two separate central nervous system lesions;
  B. Symptoms must have occurred in two or more separate episodes;
  C. Symptoms must involve the white matter;
  D. Symptoms must involve the gray matter;
  E. Neurological examination must show objective abnormalities.
8.  Female, 40. Unilateral headache accompanied nausea and vomiting for 
five yea
rs with various intensity, lasted an average of 24 hours (a range of 5 to 
72 hou
rs). The general medical and neurological examinations of this patient are 
norma
l. The most likely diagnostic possibility is:
  A. Tension headache;                B. Cluster headache;
  C. Migraine;                       D. Secondary headache;
  E. Hypochondriasis.
9.  A 40-years old man developed bilateral facial weakness and difficulty 
in cli
mbing stairs for one week after a respiratory illness. The most possible 
diagnos
is is:
    A. Bell's palsy;                    B. Multiple sclerosis;
    C. Periodic paralysis;               D. Guillain-Barré syndrome;
    E. Motor neuron disease.
10. About the main presentation of Increased intracranial pressure (ICP), 
which
one of the followings is the best?
A.  Seizure, headache, papilledema;
B.  Seizure, vomiting, papilledema;
C.  Headache, vomiting, papilledema;
D.  Headache, seizure, focal neurological signs;
E.  Vomiting, seizure, focal neurological signs.
11. Trigeminal neuralgia is described as a brief electric shocktype pain 
limited
 to the distribution of any branch of the Trigeminal nerve. Which one of 
the fol
lowing drugs is the best for its treatment?
A.  Baclofen;                   B Carbamazepine;
C Vitamin B12;                 D Valproate;
E Alcohol blocks.
12. Myasthenia Gravis (MG) is a disorder of impairing the neuromuscular 
junction
. The followings are correct, EXCEPT:
A.  The patients have no abnormality of mental state;
B.  The patients present with muscle weakness and fatigue;
C.  The hallmark of MG is pathologic fatigability;
D.  Eye findings are the most common with ptosis;
E.  MG may effect pupillary function.
13. Muscular dystrophies are genetically determined primary diseases of 
muscle,
characterized pathologically by muscle fiber degeneration. Which one of the 
foll
owings is inherited as X-linked recessive traits?
A.  Myotonic dystrophy;
B.  Duchenne muscular dystrophy;
C.  Limb-girdle dystrophy;
D.  Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy;
E.  Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy;
14. Transverse myelitis is a syndrome of acute inflammation acting across 
the en
tire spinal cord. The following diagnostic evaluation should be carried 
out, EXC
EPT:
A.  MRI of the spinal cord;              B Lumbar puncture;
C Vitamin B12 of the serum;             D Sedimentation rate;
E DNA analysis.
15. Which of the following descriptions about transient ischemic attacks 
(TIAs)
is the best?
A.  TIAs are temporary dysfunction of brain tissue caused by inadequate 
blood fl
ow;
B.  Carotid artery territory TIAs often produce ipsilateral hand and arm 
weaknes
s and sensory loss;
C.  TIAs refer to brief, reversible focal neurological deficits that they 
must r
ecover completely within 24 hours;
D.  TIAs last only minutes and may occur in any vascular territory;
E.  TIAs of the carotid territory include biocular blindness and transient 
hemis
phere attacks.
16. 男性，23岁。既往体健，两周前出现双下肢无力伴尿潴溜而入院。检查发现：双下
肢肌
力Ⅱ级，脐以下感觉缺失。入院后进行腰穿，脑脊液检查结果正常。根据以上的临床表
现，
患者最可能的诊断是：
   A  脊髓空洞症；                   B  急性脊髓炎；
   C  脊髓压迫症；                   D  格林－巴利综合症；
   E  脊髓蛛网膜炎。
17. 目前有关帕金森氏病的治疗，最有效的药物为：
   A  L－多巴制剂；        B  安坦；       C  金刚烷胺；
   D  溴隐亭；             E  多巴胺。
18. 男性，11岁。癫痫大发作史三年，服用苯妥英纳治疗后，病情较稳定，现每年发作3
－
4次，以下哪项是错误的：
   A  坚持上课；                    B  少看电视；
   C  暑期天天去游泳，加强体质锻炼；
   D  不乘坐高空游艺机；            E  养成规律的生活习惯。
19. 女性，30岁。睁眼困难伴复视二年，晨轻暮重，休息后好转。
   下列检查有助于明显诊断，除外：
   A  新期的明试验；              B  疲劳试验；
   C  胸部CT扫描；               D  乙酰胆碱受体抗体测定；
   E  椎管造影。
20. 女性，45岁。因单侧面颊部发作性针刺疼痛一年余就诊。疼痛
   持续时间较短，数秒钟至2分钟不等。体检该病人时应特别注意：
   A  面颊部有无压痛；            B  两侧瞳孔是否等大；
   C  两侧眼球运动及光反射是否正常；
   D  面部疼痛觉及角膜反射是否异常；
   E  咽部感觉、运动是否异常。

二、问答题（每题15分，共60分）
1、 试述急性横断性脊髓炎的临床表现与主要处理原则；
2、 试述脑出血的主要处理原则；
3、 试述癫痫大发作间隙期药物治疗原则与注意事项；
4、 试述急性感染性多发性周围神经病的诊断要点及主要处理原则。

 
--
