 
1.	Which nephropathy is associated with HIV infection?
2.	Which of the following disorders cannot mimic the manifestation of post-streptococcus infection nephritis?
a.	SLE
b.	subacute endocarditis
c.	necrotising FSGN
d.	polyarteritis nodosa
e.	minimal nephropathy
3.	We should measure the concentration of all the following drugs during use except?
a.	wafarin
b.	LMWH
c.	carbamazepine
d.	phenytoin
e.	ciprosporin
4.	Which of the following skin manifestation corresponds well with glucagonoma?
a.	Necrolytic migratory erythema
b.	erythema multiforme
c.	erythema nodosum
d.	erythema migrans
e.	erythema toxicum
5.	A 65-year-old man with good past medical history. He suffered from myocardial infarction 1 month ago and was treated properly and discharged from hospital 1 month ago. During the routine follow-up examination, a systolic murmur was heard at the 3rd-4th intercostals space near the left sternum border. Which of the following description regarding this finding is incorrect?
a.	VSD
b.	ASD
c.	Mitral regurgitation
d.	tricuspid regurgitation
e.	aortic stenosis

6.	Which of the following description about psoriasis is correct?
7.	Which antibody is associated with the finding in mixed connective tissue disease?
a.	AMA
b.	Ro/La
c.	RNP
d.	p-ANCA
e.	c-ANCA
8.	A 45 yrs man, heavy smoker, suffered from left upper arm numbness for 1 month. During physical examination, his bilateral upper limb was detected to be pallor, and his radial pulse was found to be superficial. He may suffer from which of the following disorder?
a.	Takayasu’s disease
b.	Buerger’s disease
c.	Kawasaki’s disease
d.	PAN
e.	Wegener’s granulomatosis
9.	Which of the following pathological finding corresponds well with Parkinson’s disease?
a.	Reed-Sternburg cell
b.	Lewy body
c.	Auer rod
d.	non-caseating granuloma
e.	caseating granuloma
10.	A 8 yrs boy, developed with malaise, pale face. The full blood count shows that his MCV is 67 fl, ferritin 200, and the blood film shows basophil stipping, what does this boy suffer from?
a.	IDA
b.	lead poisoning
c.	VitB12 deficiency
d.	folic acid deficiency
e.	beta-Thalassemia trait
11.	Which of the following experiments could be used to distinguish myasthenic crisis from cholinergic crisis in myasthenia gravis?
12.	A 13 yrs boy, developed tonsillitis and was treated with antibiotics for around 1 week, he was found to develop florid maculopapular rash all over his trunk and bilateral limbs, what is the probable cause?
13.	What is the next ECG manifestation of hyperkalaemia after T wave peak?
14.	What is the ECG change of pulmonary embolism?
15.	Which of the following criteria cannot be applied to the use of LTOT (long term oxygen therapy) in COPD patient?
16.	Which organ is the first to be affected during MODS?
17.	Which of the following ABG results corresponds well with SIADH?
18.	Which of the following EEG manifestation is characteristic of infant spasm?
19.	Which of the following description of Adam-Stoke syndrome is correct, except?
20.	Which antibody is associated with Fisher-Miller syndrome (FMS)?
21.	All of the following clinical manifestation are characteristic of carcinoid syndrome except?
22.	Which of following tumour cannot secret rPTH?
23.	Which of the following biochemical result shows the change in pesudopseudo-hyperparathyroidism?
24.	Which pathogen is most prevalent during the course of cystic fibrosis?
25.	Which of the following description about cardiac tamponade is incorrect?

--
