临床操作考试一共有5个站点，都在儿科医院。每个站点有6分钟时间。考下来总体感觉很着急，但是case相对比较典型，关键在于要熟练相关体格检查及病史询问。全部都是以英文进行，不过如果你实在是不记得相关名次，也可以说中文，看不同的考官。不过好像成绩要降格。把我考到的5个站点汇报如下：

Station one: 14-year-old boy admitted by A&amp;E due to sudden onset abdominal pain.

Examiner's questions: please briskly examine the patient.

Findings: 1. knee joint pain; 2.The boy has a purpura distributing in the buttock and the extensor surface of the lower limb and ankle. 

Examiner's question: please take a brief history of the patient

Findings: 1. sore throat with fever, 2. abdominal pain (now regressed); 

Examiner's question: What is the probable diagnosis of the patient?

Answer: Henoch-Schonlein Purpura


Station two: 1 month fat baby

Examiner's questions: Please perform a brisk examination of the baby.

Findings: 1. macrosomnia 2. macroglossia 3. omphalocele

Examiner's question: What is the most important investigation you would like to order?

Answer: Chromosomal screening

Examiner's question: what is the probable diagnosis?

Answers: Beckwith-wiedemann syndrome

Examiner's questions: List 4 differential diagnosis of the patients

Answers: Down syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome, Sotos syndrome, Weaver syndrome


Station three: 14-year-old boy

Examiner's question: Please observe the patient and tell the findings

Findings: 1. large head (bradycephaly) 2. hypertelorism 3. fusion of the fingers (syndactyly)

Examiner's question: What is the diagnosis?

Answers: Apert syndrome (acrocephalosyndactyly)


Station four: 15-year-old complaining of pain of several joints

Examiner's questions: Please briefly examine this patient.

Findings: 1. pain in wrist, elbow, knee and ankle joints with mild swelling (no increased temperature is notfied) 2. pink (salmon-coloured) skin in the shin and forarm 3. hepatomegaly (4 cm below the right subcostal margin) 4. fever

Examiner's question: What is the probable diagnosis?

Answer: systemic onset Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA)

Examiner's question: What is the classification of JIA?

Answer: Oligo-articular; pauci-articular (RA positive or negative); systemic onset; psoriasis arthritis, etc

Examiner's question: How can you tell whether the patient is oligo or pauci-articular JIA?

Answer: through the number of the joints involved (less than 4 joints involved is oligo while equal or more than 4 is pauci).Systemic manifestations should be absent.

Examiner's question: How to treat this patient of systemic onset JIA?

Answer: 1. NSAID 2. intra-articular corticosteroid injection, 3.supportive therapy 4. physiotherapy


Station Five: 11-year-old boy with difficulty in walking

Examiner's Question: Please briefly examine the lower limb of the patient

Finding: 1. hypertrophy of the calf muscle 2. hypotonia of the lower limb 3. muscle weakness of the lower limb 4. absent deep tendon reflex of the lower limb 4. obvious gower's sign when asking the boy to stand up from supine position 

Examiner's question: what is the possible diagnosis?

Answer: Duchenne's or Becker's muscular dystrophy

Examiner's question: What is the differntial diagnosis?

Answers: 1. spinal muscular atrophy 2. Myathenia gravis 3. Lambert-eaton syndrome 4. GBS 5. juvenile dermatomyositis

Examiner's question: What is the genetic etiology of the disease

Answers: absent or partial existence of dystrophin protein.

Examiner's question: What is the most important issue you wanna discuss with his parents when counseling?

Answers: 1. supportive treatment of the child 2. anticipated sudden death of the child due to cardiac or respiratory problems 3. genetic counseling of the parents 4. discussion of further birth plan with the young parents
--
